OBJECTIVE:
To expose students to FOSS environment and introduce them to use open source
packages

   1. Kernel configuration, compilation and installation : Download / access the
      latest kernel source code from kernel.org,compile the kernel and install it in the
      local system.Try to view the source code of the kernel

   2. Virtualisation environment (e.g., xen, kqemu or lguest) to test an applications,
      new kernels and isolate applications. It could also be used to expose students to
      other alternate OSs like *BSD

   3. Compiling from source : learn about the various build systems used like the
       auto* family, cmake, ant etc. instead of just running the commands. This could
       involve the full process like fetching from a cvs and also include autoconf,
       automake etc.,

   4. Introduction to packet management system : Given a set of RPM or DEB,
       how to build and maintain, serve packages over http or ftp. and also how do you
       configure client systems to access the package repository.

   5. Installing various software packages Either the package is yet to be installed or an older
       version is existing. The student can practice installing the latest version. Of course,
       this might need internet access.
      Install samba and share files to windows
      Install Common Unix Printing System(CUPS)

   6. Write userspace drivers using fuse — easier to debug and less dangerous to
       the system (Writing full-fledged drivers is difficult at student level)

   7. GUI programming : a sample programme – using Gambas since the students
       have VB knowledge. However, one should try using GTK or QT

   8. Version Control System setup and usage using RCS, CVS, SVN

   9. Text processing with Perl: simple programs, connecting with database e.g., MYSQL

   10. Running PHP : simple applications like login forms after setting up a LAMP stack

   11. Running Python : some simple exercise – e.g. Connecting with MySql database

   12. Set up the complete network interface usinf ifconfig command like setting gateway, DNS, IP
         tables, etc.,

Resources :
An environment like FOSS Lab Server (developed by NRCFOSS containing the various packages)
OR Equivalent system with Linux distro supplemented with relevant packages

Note:
Once the list of experiments are finalised, NRCFOSS can generate full lab manuals
complete with exercises, necessary downloads, etc. These could be made available on
NRCFOSS web portal.

                                                  TOTAL: 45 PERIODS
LIST OF EQUIPMENTS:
Hardware:
     Minimum Requirements:
   – 700 Mhz X86 Processor
   – 384 MB of system memory (RAM)
   – 40 GB of disk space
   – Graphics card capable of 1024*768 resolution
   – Sound Card
   – Network or Internet Connection
Software:
Latest distribution of Linux



